Development containers - Claude Code Docs
Skip to main content
Claude Code Docs
home page
English
Search...
⌘
K
Ask AI
Search...
Navigation
Deployment
Development containers
Getting started
Build with Claude Code
Administration
Configuration
Reference
Agent SDK
What's New
Resources
Setup and access
Administration overview
Advanced setup
Authentication
Server-managed settings
Auto mode
Deployment
Overview
Amazon Bedrock
Claude Platform on AWS
Google Vertex AI
Microsoft Foundry
Network configuration
LLM gateway
Development containers
Usage and costs
Monitoring
Costs
Track team usage with analytics
Plugin distribution
Create and distribute a plugin marketplace
Plugin dependency versions
Recommend your plugin from your CLI
Security and data
Security
Data usage
Zero data retention
Adoption
Communications kit
Champion kit
Documentation Index
Fetch the complete documentation index at:
https://code.claude.com/docs/llms.txt
Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.
A
development container
, or dev container, lets you define an identical, isolated environment that every engineer on your team can run. With Claude Code installed in that container, commands Claude runs execute inside it rather than on the host machine, while edits to your project files appear in your local repository as you work.
This page covers
installing Claude Code in a dev container
and the configuration topics that follow. Each topic is self-contained, so jump to the ones that match what you need to set up:
Persist authentication and settings across rebuilds
Enforce organization policy
Restrict network egress
Run without permission prompts
While the dev container provides substantial protections, no system is completely immune to all attacks.
When executed with
--dangerously-skip-permissions
, dev containers do not prevent a malicious project from exfiltrating anything accessible inside the container, including the Claude Code credentials stored in
~/.claude
.
Only use dev containers when developing with trusted repositories, and monitor Claude’s activities.
Avoid mounting host secrets such as
~/.ssh
or cloud credential files into the container; prefer repository-scoped or short-lived tokens.
How dev containers work with your editor
A dev container runs as a Docker container, either on your machine or on a cloud host such as GitHub Codespaces. An editor that supports the Dev Containers spec, such as VS Code, GitHub Codespaces, a JetBrains IDE, or Cursor, connects to that container: you browse and edit files in the editor as usual, but the integrated terminal, language servers, and build tools all run inside the container rather than on your host. Editors without dev container support, such as plain Vim, are not part of this workflow.
Claude Code runs inside the container, so it sees the same files, dependencies, and tools as the rest of your project’s toolchain. In VS Code you can use either the
Claude Code extension panel
or run
claude
in the integrated terminal; both run inside the container and share the same
~/.claude
configuration.
​
Add Claude Code to your dev container
Claude Code installs into any dev container through the
Claude Code Dev Container Feature
.
The settings work with any tool that supports the Dev Containers spec, such as VS Code, GitHub Codespaces, or JetBrains IDEs. The steps below use VS Code as an example.
When you open the container in VS Code or Codespaces, the feature also adds the Claude Code VS Code extension; other editors ignore that part.
New to dev containers? The
VS Code Dev Containers tutorial
walks through installing Docker, the extension, and opening your first container. For a fuller hardened example with a firewall and persistent volumes, see
Try the reference container
.
1
Create or update devcontainer.json
Save the following as
.devcontainer/devcontainer.json
in your repository, or add the
features
block to your existing file.
The version tag at the end, such as
:1.0
, pins the feature’s install script, not the Claude Code release. The feature installs the latest Claude Code, and Claude Code auto-updates itself inside the container by default.
To pin the CLI version or disable auto-update, see
Enforce organization policy
.
.devcontainer/devcontainer.json
{
"image"
:
"mcr.microsoft.com/devcontainers/base:ubuntu"
,
"features"
: {
"ghcr.io/anthropics/devcontainer-features/claude-code:1.0"
: {}
}
}
Replace the
image
line with your project’s base image or remove it if your existing file uses a Dockerfile.
2
Rebuild the container
Open the VS Code Command Palette with
Cmd+Shift+P
on Mac or
Ctrl+Shift+P
on Windows and Linux, and run
Dev Containers: Rebuild Container
.
For other tools, follow that tool’s rebuild action: see
rebuilding in GitHub Codespaces
, the
Dev Containers CLI
, or your IDE’s dev container documentation.
3
Sign in to Claude Code
Open a terminal in the rebuilt container and run
claude
, then follow the authentication prompt.
What you see at the authentication prompt depends on your provider:
Anthropic
: sign in through a browser with your Claude or Anthropic Console account
Amazon Bedrock, Google Vertex AI, or Microsoft Foundry
: Claude Code uses your cloud provider credentials, with no browser prompt
For cloud providers, pass credentials into the container as environment variables through
containerEnv
, a Codespaces secret, or your cloud’s workload identity rather than mounting credential files from the host. See
Amazon Bedrock
,
Google Vertex AI
, or
Microsoft Foundry
for the credential chain Claude Code reads.
See
Choose your API provider
to decide which path fits your organization.
If the browser sign-in completes but the callback never reaches the container, copy the code shown in the browser and paste it at the
Paste code here if prompted
prompt in the terminal. This can happen when the editor’s port forwarding doesn’t route the localhost callback.
​
Persist authentication and settings across rebuilds
By default, the container’s home directory is discarded on rebuild, so engineers must sign in again each time. Claude Code stores its authentication token, user settings, and session history under
~/.claude
. Mount a named volume at that path to keep this state across rebuilds.
The following example mounts a volume at the home directory of the
node
user:
devcontainer.json
"mounts"
: [
"source=claude-code-config,target=/home/node/.claude,type=volume"
]
Replace
/home/node
with the home directory of your container’s
remoteUser
. If you mount the volume somewhere other than
~/.claude
, set
CLAUDE_CONFIG_DIR
to the mount path so Claude Code reads and writes there.
To isolate state per project rather than sharing one volume across all repositories, include the
${devcontainerId}
variable in the source name. The
reference configuration
uses
source=claude-code-config-${devcontainerId}
for this purpose.
In GitHub Codespaces,
~/.claude
persists across stopping and starting a codespace, but is still cleared when you rebuild the container, so the volume mount above applies there too. To carry authentication across codespaces, store
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
or a
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN
from
claude setup-token
as a
Codespaces secret
; Codespaces makes secrets available as environment variables inside the container automatically.
​
Enforce organization policy
A dev container is a convenient place to apply organization policy, because the same image and configuration run on every engineer’s machine.
Claude Code reads
/etc/claude-code/managed-settings.json
on Linux and applies it at the highest precedence in the
settings hierarchy
, so values there override anything an engineer sets in
~/.claude
or the project’s
.claude/
directory. Copy the file into place from your Dockerfile:
Dockerfile
RUN
mkdir -p /etc/claude-code
COPY
managed-settings.json /etc/claude-code/managed-settings.json
Because the Dockerfile lives in the repository, anyone with write access can change or remove this step. For policy that engineers cannot bypass by editing repository files, deliver managed settings through
server-managed settings
or your MDM instead. See
managed settings files
for the available keys and the other delivery paths.
To set
environment variables
that apply to every Claude Code session in the container, add them to
containerEnv
in your
devcontainer.json
. The following example opts out of telemetry and error reporting and prevents Claude Code from auto-updating after install:
devcontainer.json
"containerEnv"
: {
"CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_NONESSENTIAL_TRAFFIC"
:
"1"
,
"DISABLE_AUTOUPDATER"
:
"1"
}
The Dev Container Feature always installs the latest Claude Code release. To pin a specific Claude Code version for reproducible builds, install it from your Dockerfile with
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code@X.Y.Z
instead of using the feature, and set
DISABLE_AUTOUPDATER
as shown above.
For the full list of policy controls including permission rules, tool restrictions, and MCP server allowlists, see
Set up Claude Code for your organization
.
To make
MCP servers
available inside the container, define them at
project scope
in a
.mcp.json
file at the repository root so they are checked in alongside your dev container configuration. Install any binaries that local stdio servers depend on in your Dockerfile, and add remote server domains to your network allowlist.
​
Restrict network egress
You can limit the container’s outbound traffic to only the domains Claude Code needs. See
Network access requirements
for the inference and authentication domains, and
Telemetry services
for the optional telemetry and error reporting connections and how to disable them.
The reference container includes an
init-firewall.sh
script that blocks all outbound traffic except the domains Claude Code and your development tools need. Running a firewall inside a container requires extra permissions, so the reference adds the
NET_ADMIN
and
NET_RAW
capabilities through
runArgs
. The firewall script and these capabilities are not required for Claude Code itself: you can leave them out and rely on your own network controls instead.
​
Run without permission prompts
Because the container runs Claude Code as a non-root user and confines command execution to the container, you can pass
--dangerously-skip-permissions
for unattended operation. The CLI rejects this flag when launched as root, so confirm
remoteUser
is set to a non-root account.
Skipping permission prompts removes your opportunity to review tool calls before they run. Claude can still modify any file in the bind-mounted workspace, which appears directly on your host, and reach anything the container’s network policy allows. Pair this flag with the
network egress restrictions
above to limit what a bypassed session can reach.
If you want fewer prompts without disabling safety checks, consider
auto mode
instead, which has a classifier review actions before they run. To prevent engineers from using
--dangerously-skip-permissions
at all, set
permissions.disableBypassPermissionsMode
to
"disable"
in
managed settings
.
​
Try the reference container
The
anthropics/claude-code
repository includes an example dev container that combines the CLI, the egress firewall, persistent volumes, and a Zsh-based shell. It is provided as a working example rather than a maintained base image; use it to see how the pieces fit together before applying them to your own configuration.
1
Install prerequisites
Install VS Code and the
Dev Containers extension
.
2
Clone the reference
Clone the
Claude Code repository
and open it in VS Code.
3
Reopen in container
When prompted, click
Reopen in Container
, or run
Dev Containers: Reopen in Container
from the Command Palette.
4
Start Claude Code
Once the container finishes building, open a terminal with
Ctrl+`
and run
claude
to sign in and start your first session.
To use this configuration with your own project, copy the
.devcontainer/
directory into your repository and adjust the Dockerfile for your toolchain, or return to
Add Claude Code to your dev container
to add only the feature to a setup you already have.
The reference configuration consists of three files. None of them are required when you add Claude Code to your own dev container through the feature, but they show one way to combine the pieces.
File
Purpose
devcontainer.json
Volume mounts,
runArgs
capabilities, VS Code extensions, and
containerEnv
Dockerfile
Base image, development tools, and the Claude Code install
init-firewall.sh
Blocks all outbound network traffic except the allowed domains
​
Next steps
Once Claude Code is running in your dev container, the pages below cover the rest of an organization rollout: choosing an authentication path, delivering managed policy outside the repository, monitoring usage, and understanding what Claude Code stores and sends.
Set up Claude Code for your organization
: choose an authentication provider, decide how policy reaches devices, and plan the rollout
Server-managed settings
: deliver managed policy from the Claude.ai admin console so engineers cannot bypass it by editing repository files
Monitor usage and audit activity
: export OpenTelemetry metrics and review what your team is running
Network access requirements
: the full domain allowlist for proxies and firewalls
Telemetry services and opt-out
: what Claude Code sends by default and the environment variables that disable it
Explore the
.claude
directory
: what the volume mount holds, including credentials, settings, and session history
Security model
: how Claude Code’s permission system, sandboxing, and prompt-injection protections fit together
Permission modes
: the full range from plan mode to auto mode to bypass, and when to use each
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
LLM gateway
Monitoring
⌘
I
Assistant
Responses are generated using AI and may contain mistakes.