This page covers performance, stability, and search problems once Claude Code is running. For other issues, start with the page that matches where you’re stuck:
Symptom
Go to
command not found
, install fails, PATH issues,
EACCES
, TLS errors
Troubleshoot installation and login
Update or install download fails with
The connection dropped while downloading the update
or
aborted
Error reference
Login loops, OAuth errors,
403 Forbidden
, “organization disabled”, Amazon Bedrock, Google Cloud’s Agent Platform, or Microsoft Foundry credentials
Troubleshoot installation and login
Settings not applying, hooks not firing, MCP servers not loading
Debug your configuration
Session started in auto mode, or Claude edits files and runs commands without asking
Which mode a session starts in
API Error: 5xx
,
529 Overloaded
,
429
, request validation errors
Error reference
model not found
or
you may not have access to it
Error reference
VS Code extension not connecting or detecting Claude
VS Code integration
Claude Code process exited with code 1
in VS Code or an SDK app
Error reference
JetBrains plugin or IDE not detected
JetBrains integration
High CPU or memory, slow responses, hangs, search not finding files
Performance and stability
below
If you’re not sure which applies, run
/doctor
inside Claude Code for an automated check of your installation, settings, extensions, and context usage; it proposes fixes it can apply after you confirm. If
claude
won’t start at all, run
claude doctor
from your shell instead. Run
/mcp
to check MCP server status.
​
Performance and stability
These sections cover issues related to resource usage, responsiveness, and search behavior.
​
High CPU or memory usage
Claude Code is designed to work with most development environments, but may consume significant resources when processing large codebases. If you’re experiencing performance issues:
Use
/compact
regularly to reduce context size. If it returns
Not enough messages to compact.
, the conversation has too few turns to summarize; that can happen even with a full context when a single large paste filled it
Close and restart Claude Code between major tasks
Consider adding large build directories to your
.gitignore
file
Restart with
claude --safe-mode
to check whether a plugin, MCP server, or hook is the source. It disables all customizations for the session; if usage drops, see
Debug your configuration
to find which one
If memory usage stays high after these steps, run
/heapdump
to write two files to
~/Desktop
: a JavaScript heap snapshot named
<session-id>.heapsnapshot
and a memory breakdown named
<session-id>-diagnostics.json
. The command doesn’t appear in the command menu; type it in full. On Linux without a Desktop folder, the files are written to your home directory.
The
.heapsnapshot
file contains every string in the process, including your full conversation and credentials. Don’t attach it to a public issue or share it.
The command also prints a summary in the conversation, showing resident set size, JS heap, array buffers, and unaccounted native memory, plus any leak indicators it detected, such as a high memory growth rate or an unusually high number of open handles. The summary says whether most memory is in the JS heap, which the snapshot captures, or in native memory, which it doesn’t.
Do one of two things with the output:
Report it
: open a
GitHub issue
and attach only the
-diagnostics.json
file, which carries the statistics behind the printed summary and no conversation content or credentials
Investigate it yourself
: if the summary says most memory is JS heap, open the
.heapsnapshot
file in Chrome DevTools under Memory → Load and sort by retained size to see what’s holding the memory
If the summary says most memory is native, the snapshot can’t show it; include the summary’s leak indicators in your report instead.
​
Large tables are cut off in the terminal
A Markdown table with more than 200 rows renders its first 200 rows followed by a
… N more rows not shown
line. Only the display is capped: the full table stays in the conversation, and
/copy
copies every row. For a table too large to read in the terminal, ask Claude to write it to a file instead. Before v2.1.208, Claude Code rendered every row, so resuming a session that contained a very large table could stall while it re-rendered.
​
Auto-compaction stops with a thrashing error
If you see
Autocompact is thrashing: the context refilled to the limit...
, automatic compaction succeeded but a file or tool output immediately refilled the context window several times in a row. Claude Code stops retrying to avoid wasting API calls on a loop that isn’t making progress.
To recover:
Ask Claude to read the oversized file in smaller chunks, such as a specific line range or function, instead of the whole file
Run
/compact
with a focus that drops the large output, for example
/compact keep only the plan and the diff
Move the large-file work to a
subagent
so it runs in a separate context window
Run
/clear
if the earlier conversation is no longer needed
​
Command hangs or freezes
If Claude Code seems unresponsive:
Press Ctrl+C to attempt to cancel the current operation
If unresponsive, you may need to close the terminal and restart
Restarting doesn’t lose your conversation. Run
claude --resume
in the same directory to pick the session back up.
​
Garbled or corrupted text in an editor’s integrated terminal
If characters render as boxes, smears, or the wrong glyphs when running Claude Code in the VS Code, Cursor, or Devin Desktop integrated terminal, the terminal’s GPU renderer is likely the cause. Run
/terminal-setup
inside Claude Code to set
terminal.integrated.gpuAcceleration
to
"off"
, or set it manually in your editor settings and reload the window. See
Terminal configuration
for the other settings
/terminal-setup
writes.
​
Search and discovery issues
If the Search tool,
@file
mentions, custom agents, or custom skills aren’t finding files, the bundled
ripgrep
binary may not run on your system. Install your platform’s
ripgrep
package and tell Claude Code to use it instead:
macOS
Ubuntu/Debian
Alpine
Arch
Windows
brew
install
ripgrep
sudo
apt
install
ripgrep
apk
add
ripgrep
ripgrep
is in Alpine’s community repository. If
apk
reports that the package is missing, see
Alpine Linux setup
.
pacman
-S
ripgrep
winget install BurntSushi.ripgrep.MSVC
Then set
USE_BUILTIN_RIPGREP
to
0
, either in your shell
environment
or in the
env
block of your
settings.json
:
{
"env"
: {
"USE_BUILTIN_RIPGREP"
:
"0"
}
}
To confirm the switch took effect, run
claude doctor
in your terminal and check that the Search line shows the path of your system ripgrep instead of
OK (bundled)
.
​
Slow or incomplete search results on WSL
Disk read performance penalties when
working across file systems on WSL
may result in fewer-than-expected matches when using Claude Code on WSL. Search still functions, but returns fewer results than on a native filesystem.
claude doctor
shows Search as OK in this case.
Solutions:
Submit more specific searches
: reduce the number of files searched by specifying directories or file types: “Search for JWT validation logic in the auth-service package” or “Find use of md5 hash in JS files”.
Move project to Linux filesystem
: if possible, ensure your project is located on the Linux filesystem (
/home/
) rather than the Windows filesystem (
/mnt/c/
).
Use native Windows instead
: consider running Claude Code natively on Windows instead of through WSL, for better file system performance.
​
Get more help
If you’re experiencing issues not covered here:
Run
/doctor
for a setup checkup and
/mcp
to check MCP server status
Use the
/feedback
command within Claude Code to report problems directly to Anthropic
Check the
GitHub repository
for known issues
Ask Claude directly about its capabilities and features. Claude has built-in access to its documentation.
For account, billing, or subscription problems, contact Anthropic support instead: sign in at
claude.ai
(Console users:
platform.claude.com
), click your initials in the lower left, and select
Get help
. See
How to get support
for the full flow, including who can reach a human agent on each plan.
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
⌘
I